Example Bylaws and Constitution for Local CollHome Chapters

Article I. Name

1.	This organization shall be called the Student Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) at the College of William & Mary in Virginia (WM@ACM).

Article II. Purpose 

1.	The chapter is organized and will be operated exclusively for educational and scientific purposes and in furtherance thereof.

a.	To promote an increased knowledge of the science, design, development, construction, languages, and applications of modern computing machinery.
b.	To promote a greater interest in computing machinery and its applications.
c.	To provide a means of communication between persons having an interest in computing machinery.

Article III. Membership

1.	Any full-time student or faculty member at the College of William & Mary may upon request and payment of dues become a voting member of this chapter. 
2.	Voting membership in the student chapter shall be granted to chapter members who are also National ACM members.
3.	Any person who is not a full-time student or faculty member at the College of William & Mary, may upon request and payment of dues become a non-voting affiliate member of this chapter.
4.	A member in good standing of the national ACM who is not a full-time student or faculty member at the College of William & Mary, may upon request and payment of dues become a voting affiliate member of this chapter, provided that the number of voting affiliate members shall not exceed one-half of the entire voting membership of this chapter.
5.	Affiliate members may not hold executive office.
6.	Membership shall not be restricted according to race, creed, age, gender, disability, nationality, sexual orientation, economic status, veteran status, or parenthood. 

Article IV. Officers

1.	The officers of this chapter shall be Chair , Vice Chair , Secretary, Treasurer, Public Relations Chair, Webmaster, Hackathon Chair, Cypher Chair, Interview Preparation Chair and Graduate Liaison. Each officer must be a member in good standing of the national ACM, a voting member of this chapter, and a full or part-time student at the College of William & Mary. An elected officer who is not a member in good standing of the national ACM at the time of they election must apply for membership to the national ACM as soon as possible after such election.
2.	The officers shall be elected at the annual Election Meeting, to be held in the spring semester of each year. They shall take office immediately after the election and serve until their successors take office at the next Election Meeting.
3.	Any member who has served in either of the offices of Chair or Vice Chair in each of two consecutive years, may not hold either office in the immediately following year.
4.	Only voting members who have held an executive council officer position in a previous term will be eligible for nomination to Chair, unless no suitable candidate exists. If there are no nominees to Chair who have previously held an officer position, nominations will open to all voting members. 
5.	Only voting members who have previously served on the organizing committee for Cypher will be eligible for nomination to Cypher Chair, unless no suitable candidate exists. If there are no nominees to Cypher Chair who have previously served on the organizing committee, nominations will open to all voting members. 
6.	Vacancies in any office other than Chair caused by resignation, removal or disability shall be filled as follows: 

Immediately following a vacancy, chapter members will be informed of the vacancy. Nominations to fill the vacant position will be accepted from all voting members, and collected either electronically or at the next chapter meeting. Following the collection of nominations, the nominees will be presented to the chapter members at the next chapter meeting. At this time, an election to fill the vacant position will be held, according to regular election procedures (see Article IX). 

If the office of the Chair is so vacated, the Vice Chair shall immediately assume that office, and the Executive Council shall then fill the vacant office of Vice Chair .

Article V. Duties of Officers

1.	The Chair shall preside at all meetings and activities of this chapter and its Executive Council. The Chair shall represent this chapter at all meetings with the ACM Regional Representative. The Chair shall also assist the other officers as needed.
2.	The Vice Chair shall assume the duties of the Chair in the event of the Chair’s absence. The Vice Chair shall also be responsible for organizing chapter-wide meetings and social events, and arranging for speakers.
3.	The Secretary shall keep chapter members informed of chapter news and business. They shall keep minutes of all executive council meetings, and shall keep minutes of chapter meetings when asked to do so by the Chair. They shall also be responsible for completing all forms and reports required by the national ACM.
4.	The Treasurer shall collect dues and maintain financial and membership records. The treasurer will fulfill budgeting obligations to William & Mary, and will draft a budget proposal and request from the student leadership office upon the chair ’s request each semester. The treasurer will dispense funds to the committees upon request and will work with the Chair to set budget guidelines at the beginning of each semester.
5.	The Public Relations chair shall promote the William & Mary chapter of the ACM to the campus using any appropriate media. They will also promote individual events organized and affiliated with the Chapter. 
6.	The Webmaster will manage the development and content of the WM-ACM Chapter website. They shall act as historian by managing photographs and text posts relevant to the Chapter.
7.	The Cypher Chair shall organize William & Mary’s annual hackathon: Cypher. They shall be responsible for raising funds for the event, encouraging participation at the event from William & Mary students and students at other universities, and run the event. They will, as necessary, be aided by other members of the executive council in completion of these duties. 
8.	The Hackathon Chair shall disseminate information and news about external computing-related events such as hackathons, conferences, and competitions for ACM members to encourage student innovation and computer interests. They shall also promote attendance at these events.
9.	The Interview Preparation Chair shall organize weekly interview preparation sessions designed to aid ACM members to perform well in technical interviews. They shall maintain employer relations and organize employer sponsored talks and events when appropriate. They shall maintain the chapter relationship with the William & Mary Career Center.
10.	The Graduate Student Liaison will serve as contact and representative of the graduate students at William & Mary. As such, this position must be held by a member of the Computer Science Graduate Student Association for as long as it exists, and is highly encouraged to hold a leadership role in that organization as well. This office can be held in addition to any other executive office, but will yield only one vote.

Article VI. Faculty Advisor

1.	The Faculty Advisor shall be nominated by the Executive Council at the first Executive Council meeting following the annual Election. The nomination shall be submitted to the President of the national ACM via the Chair of the national ACM Student Membership and Chapters Committee. The Faculty Advisor shall be appointed chapter sponsor by the President of national ACM to serve until a successor is appointed.
2.	The Faculty Advisor shall be generally responsible for the activities of this chapter.
3.	The Faculty Advisor shall:
a.	Help provide continuity from year to year as student leadership and personnel change;
b.	Promote good student-faculty relationships;
c.	Help maintain university standards in all activities of the organization;
d.	Exercise financial supervision if necessary by promoting prompt payment of bills and collection of dues, and overseeing the settlement of all accounts in the event of dissolution of this chapter;
e.	Represent the student chapter interests to the faculty and administration.
4.	The faculty advisor shall be a member in good standing of the national ACM.

Article VII. Executive Council

1.	The Executive Council shall consist of the chapter officers, and the Faculty Advisor. Immediate past officers who are chapter members may also serve as non-voting members of the Executive Council. The Executive Council shall meet and nominate the Faculty Advisor following the annual Election Meeting. (see Article VI).
2.	Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, the Executive Council shall act for this chapter in all matters except election of officers at the annual Election Meeting and the amendment of these Bylaws. Minutes of all Executive Council meetings shall be filed with the chapter records.
3.	Meetings of the Executive Council shall be called by the Chair at they discretion or upon request of any member of the Executive Council.

Article VIII. Committees

1.	Temporary committees shall be established as needed by the chapter officers. The officer for whom the committee is established shall be responsible for appointing the chair of that committee, or shall serve as chair themself.
2.	Membership on committees in voluntary and open to all members of the chapter. Voting members shall be asked to serve on at least one committee per year, but this shall not be required.
3.	Public Relations Chair, Webmaster, Hackathon Chair, Cypher Chair, and Interview Preparation Chair shall attempt to organize committees to delegate responsibilities whenever this is possible.

Article IX. Meetings

1.	Meetings shall be held as planned by the Executive Council. This chapter may hold meetings only in places that are open to all members of the Association for Computing Machinery.
2.	The annual Election Meeting shall be held during the spring term of every year. A majority of the votes cast for any office is necessary for election to that office.
3.	A public announcement of each meeting shall be made in advance of that meeting.
4.	There shall be at least six meetings and or activities each year.
5.	A quorum of this chapter shall be required for the conduct of business and shall consist of a majority of the voting members of this chapter.

Article X. Disbursements and Dues

1.	Disbursements from the Treasury for chapter expenditures shall be made under authorization of the Executive Council.
2.	Dues shall be collected as authorized by the Executive Council.

Article XI. Amendments and Procedure

1.	Amendments to these Bylaws shall be made in the following manner:

a.	The proposed amendment shall be read at an announced chapter meeting. Three copies of the proposed amendment shall be sent to the Executive Director of the national ACM, requesting the approval of the Chair of the National ACM Student Membership and Chapters Committee and the Chair of the national ACM Constitution and Bylaws Committee.
b.	After approval has been received from the designated ACM authority, the proposed amendment shall be distributed to the membership in writing with notice of a subsequent meeting at which the amendment will be considered.
c.	At the designated meeting the amendment shall be read again, discussed, and voted upon. Two-thirds of the voting members present and voting shall be required to adopt the amendment.
2.	Rulings on any point of procedure not included in these bylaws shall be made by the Chair with the approval of the Faculty Advisor.

Article XII. Code of Conduct
1.	Harassment or hostile behavior is unwelcome, including speech that intimidates, creates discomfort, or interferes with a person’s participation or opportunity for participation in a Chapter meeting or Chapter event. Harassment in any form, including but not limited to harassment based on allegiance or citizenship, age, color, creed, disability, marital status, national origin, pregnancy, childbirth-and pregnancy related medical conditions-, race, religion, sex, gender, veteran status, sexual orientatin, or any other status protected by laws in which the Chapter meeting or Chapter event is being held, will not be tolerated. Harassment includes the use of abusive or degrading language, intimidation, stalking, harassing photography or recording, inappropriate physical contact, sexual imagery, and unwelcome sexual contact. A response that the participant was “just joking,” “teasing,” or being “playful,” will not be accepted. 
2.	Anyone witnessing or subject to unacceptable behavior should notify a Chapter officer or ACM headquarters.
3.	Individuals violating these standards may be sanctioned or excluded from further participation at the discretion of the Chapter officers or responsible committee members. 

Article XIII. Dissolution

1.	Dissolution of this Chapter by consent of the members shall consist of unanimous agreement of all its officers together with a majority vote at a meeting which has been publicized in advance to all members of the Chapter for the purpose of taking this vote.
2.	In the event of revocation of the Charter or dissolution of this chapter, all the assets of the chapter will be transferred to the Association for Computing Machinery and shall be supervised by the ACM Finance Director.
